[Music] Excuse me
, teacher, I have a question.   Just a quick
question.
Yes.  While we were on the bus, I reminded
everyone that when going to the temple, men and women shouldn't go
together, like holding hands or anything like
that.  Then you might ask, why is
that?  I only mentioned it briefly as a
form of karmic retribution, but I don't know
what kind of karmic consequences would arise if I went to the temple and did something like that. I hope you can help me. Also,
hypothetically, if a man or woman goes to the temple after having
done such things, what
should they do to atone for the consequences
?  Please feel free to try it if you like.
Yes, thank you Huy, that's a
very good question.
Then she will talk about what you know as
karma, where it comes from, and where
this kind of karma exists.  A temple is
just the vast expanse of heaven and earth, and
love is between two people; there's no
stealing involved.  Right?  But then they say that karma
has
such an illogical kind of retribution?  Right?  Even
karma has to have a reason.  Why is there such
illogical retribution?  Is that correct?  Now,
kids, let's go play at this place
.  When you go to a place and
they say that
urinating in public is prohibited and you'll be
fined if you're caught,
that's because it's a local regulation,
right?  I'd say I was punished for being born
.  So, if I say that even heaven and earth
urinate and defecate on the ground, why should I be
punished?
Is it okay to say that?  You can't say that
because that's the rule there,
so anyone who violates it will be
fined.
That's because of the person imposing the punishment.  As for temples, they
are places of spiritual governance, meaning they are home to
guardian deities.
Teacher, do you understand?  And the temple is a place of
practice to escape the cycle of reincarnation and sever all attachments,
that is, to sever all attachments in order to escape the cycle of reincarnation.
So here, you all have
one sole task: to eradicate attachment
for all people.  Therefore, when these two people hold
hands and love each other, the deities help to break the
bond of love between them.   So
what about the end of love?  We're going to have to argue,
right?
Disagreements with each other.  And what about this person? Did
those people also follow the karmic
connection and end the relationship for him, right?  Then, when you go home, you'll
encounter all sorts of problems that will later cause marital
discord, meaning the end of the love life.  Is that
clear to everyone?  That's karma, you know.
In Buddhist terms, it's not exactly a case of
silent karmic retribution.  But what
if, in this world, these two spouses
stopped loving each other? That would be terrible, right
?  So now, if a couple is married but they
are forbidden from being intimate, the other person will go and be
intimate with someone else.  Husband and wife have affairs with
other men.  Thus, being born meant destroying
family happiness.  So, do you understand
this kind of karmic retribution now?
This karmic retribution is a result of the right cause and effect,
brought about by the Dharma protectors at the temple.  There.
That's what you call adapting to local customs.  If I want to
reach this place, I have to read about abandoning
evil and doing good; will that help me achieve my goal?  You can pray for it
because that money will turn into
blessings.
lah
[Applause]
[Music]